hello everyone my name is Jay I'm one of
the expert teachers at e2 language I'm
an IELTS expert how do I know that well
I have a degree in linguistics I've been
teaching for many years and I've taken
the IELTS test in this lesson we're
going to look at IELTS writing task 2
and we're going to look at the problem
solution essay we haven't looked at this
one yet this is a bit of a trick it
requires a similar structure that we've
seen in other essays but there's a bit
of a difference with this one and we're
going to look at that today so let's get
started first of all what we want to aim
for is an IELTS 9 or there abouts if we
fall short that's ok but this should be
on our aim this essay here is what we're
going to learn how to write this I dare
say is an IELTS 9 or at least it should
be worth an IELTS 9 because everything
that the examiners are looking for in
your writing is in this essay there are
4 things that the examiners look for I'm
going to go through them at the end of
this presentation but right now trust me
this is a good essay and you're going to
write one word by word with me right
question prompt the first thing we need
to think about is the question front
this is what you're going to see on test
a in front of you on the piece of paper
on the test paper ok just give me one
second I need to uh I need to I need to
do something just bear with me I've
forgotten my I've forgotten my I forgot
my I forgot my what hold on hold on hold
on hold on hold on my people my
powerpoint presentation has just died I
might have to start this video again it
did die interesting not good and I need
that and I'm gonna start this again I'm
sorry about the mucking around there but
let's try that again
from the beginning hello my name is Jay
I'm one of the teachers at e2 language
comm in this lesson we're going to look
at IELTS writing task 2 it applies to
both IELTS general and IELTS academic
and we're going to look at the problem
solution essay we're going to look at
this one here there are two parts and
you may get this on test day so let's
work out how to write this one right
we're going to look first at an IELTS 9
essay I wrote this one before and this
is what we're going to aim to do today
in fact I'm going to get you to write
this thing symptoms by sentence so
please get out a pen and a piece of
paper because there's only one way to
learn how to write essays and that's to
write essays yes there's a bit of Theory
involved and to understand the structure
and what you need to put in there but
the best practice you can do is to
actually write their sentences yourself
so please let's do this and yes we'll do
that cool right the first thing we want
to think about is the question prompt on
test day this is what you're going to
see in front of you
now I was just talking before with
Mohammed that there are five different
IELTS essay question prompts can I
remember them well there's the agree to
what extent do you agree or disagree
there's the discussion is the problem
solution there's the advantages
disadvantages and of course I've
forgotten one which is the double
question so there are five prompts so
this is one of them let's look at this
more closely and you will notice
something about it first of all there's
a general statement it says
stress-related illnesses are becoming
increasingly common then it has a little
first part here it says what do you
think are the causes of this and we've
got a key word here which tells us this
is the problem solution essay and we
have a second part here that says what
solutions can you suggest so this
question prompt here is the problem
solution one we need to learn how to
write it so as I said there's a general
state
all of the prompts will have a general
statement for the problem solution
stress-related illnesses are becoming
increasingly common then you're going to
look at the causes it's going to ask you
about the causes now pay close attention
because it doesn't stay cause it says
causes it says more than one cause we
need to talk about causes plural and
same here when it says solutions they
didn't say it doesn't say what solution
says what solutions plural we need to
pay careful attention to this don't
worry I'm going to show you what to do
write essay structure very simply we're
going to have four paragraphs an
introduction a paragraph one to any
conclusion our paragraph one this one
here we're going to mention two causes
and in our paragraph two we're going to
mention the two solutions so this is the
overall structure of what we're going to
learn how to write of course is more
complex than that and we need to think
about this sentence by sentence and
again you need to practice this and
let's take a look at this this is what
we're going to do we're going to write
this essay sentence by sentence let's
just have a brief look at it let's look
at the introduction you can see here one
two three sentences paragraph one we've
got one two three four sentences same
with paragraph two and the conclusion
has three sentences now you may notice
something about this essay structure and
that is well that is this let's look at
this the introduction and the conclusion
are exactly the same sentence one
rewrite the general statement sentence
to this essay will discuss two main
causes sentence three this essay will
suggest two main solutions the
conclusion sentence one rewrite the
general statement sentenced to this
essay discussed
sentence three this essay suggested so
the only difference here is the verb
tense but you can see that the
introduction and the conclusion mirror
each other in fact they're almost
exactly the same and it's the same thing
with paragraph 1 and 2 they're exactly
the same so sentence 1 introduced both
courses introduced both solutions give
reasons give reasons give examples give
examples conclude the causes conclude
the solutions these two paragraphs have
almost an identical structure so in fact
when you look at this thing here it's
really not that much really you're
learning how to write well here it
should be in fact 14 sentences but not
really really you have to memorize seven
different sentences that's possible
that's doable that works and by the way
this is logical to write alright before
we start writing we need to understand
about causes and solutions so all of
these problems solution essays will ask
will first of all have a general
statement and it might be something
about obesity or traffic congestion or
it might be about education or it might
be about I don't know air pollution or
homelessness some sort of controversial
topic so that's the general statement
then it will say what are the causes
plural of obesity homelessness
illiteracy for example then it will say
what are some possible solutions for
illiteracy or obesity etc so what we
want to do is make it easy for ourselves
let's think about the topic of obesity
two causes of obesity well one would be
a bad diet
the other would be lack of exercise so
that will be our first paragraph we're
gonna
right about bad diet and lack of
exercise and in paragraph 2 where we get
into the solutions we're going to say
that the opposite or the solution to a
bad diet is healthy eating the solution
to a lack of exercise is a healthy
lifestyle what I want you to do first I
want you to just think of the causes of
traffic congestion illiteracy air
pollution and homelessness please type
into the chat what are two causes for
each of these I'm gonna give you a
couple of minutes to do this because you
do need to think about this what are two
causes of traffic congestion just very
simply in fact let's just do traffic
congestion first let's think about
traffic congestion what are two causes
let me have a look at that chat see what
you guys are writing increasing number
of vehicles yes good what else because
we need more than one we need two poor
road infrastructure excellent
overpopulation increasing population
these are the causes of traffic
congestion good lack of public transport
good now let's think about the solutions
to traffic congestion and there'll be
the opposite of the causes so if one is
overpopulation a solution would be to
what move people out of the city if the
cause of traffic congestion is bad
public transport the solution would be
what improved public transport good or
if the cause of traffic congestion is
poor infrastructure poor roads and
highways what's the solution improving
the roads and the highways this is what
this essay is all about it's about
thinking what causes something or two
causes and two solutions your two causes
should be similar ok you don't want to
write about drastically different things
so if you write about
poor public transport and poor road
infrastructure are the causes and then
the two solutions will be improved Road
infrastructure and improved public
transport you can see how we write this
este so in 30 seconds before you start
to write your essay you need to have
these sorts of ideas you need to think
about those two causes and those two
solutions whoops
just for homework or if you're on
YouTube you can pause this and you might
want to write two causes and two
solutions for each of these but for now
let's just move on alright I've looked
at that let's look at how to write the
introduction we're going to start like
with this three sentence introduction
and my introduction says this I'm going
to show you how to write one like this
mine says people are increasingly
suffering from sickness as a result of
stress or sicknesses rather as a result
of stress this essay will discuss the
main causes of stress related sicknesses
including longer working hours and
increased job pressures this essay will
also suggest solutions to these problems
including improving one's work-life
balance and diet this is a good essay a
good introduction I'll tell you exactly
how to do it in a second but it's
totally on topic okay it's totally on
topic and that's important how do we
write one like this well sentence one we
need to rewrite the general statement
the general statement from the question
prompt said stress-related illnesses are
becoming increasingly common so all I
did was I rewrote this statement in my
own words and I said people are
increasingly suffering from sicknesses
as a result of stress so this thing here
says exactly the same as this thing here
but just in different words so let's see
if you can write this rewrite this
general statement in your own words you
have one minute
alright let me give a bit of feedback to
these people in the webinar nowadays
people are suffering in many cut from
many kinds of illnesses caused by stress
beautiful stress-related problems have
become a common problem nowadays good
nowadays one word good well done
Maria more and more people are becoming
sick due to stress related illnesses
beautiful nowadays ill sorry nowadays
illnesses due to stress are increasingly
being witnessed beautiful Ruchi
stress-related problems are ubiquitous
these days good Richie that's a really
nice way to say increasingly common
ubiquitous that's a beautiful word good
so that's pretty easy
all we did was we rewrote this in our
own words cool sentence - you'll notice
that with this problem solution we've
got this essay will this essay will
twice because the first one we discuss
the second one we suggest first one we
discuss the main causes second one we
celeste suggests the main solutions
so let's write sentence two this is able
discuss two main causes so I wrote this
because this said stress-related
illnesses are becoming increasingly
common what do you think are the causes
of this this essay will discuss the main
causes of stress related sicknesses
including longer working hours and
increased job pressures cool so we what
am I to my to causes longer working
hours increased job pressures causing
stress related sicknesses so now it's
your turn this essay will discuss the
two main causes of stress-related
illness including what
all right let's have a look at some of
these answers here two main causes so
struggling to obtain a better lifestyle
and family related problems excellent
that's fine good sri huh says decrease
in the work-life balance increasing an
average standard of living good that's
fine
victor job and family pressure great
that's fine
chandra says dealing with uncertainties
and working for long hours good finances
good well done Smith the finances and
health problems good barber Ali says
poor road infrastructure and bad diet
habits there a little bit to separate
poor road infrastructure and bad diets
maybe if you said job stress and bad
diets you want to keep your two ideas is
kind of related to each other because if
you do two quite separate ones it will
make the rest of your essay harder so I
think job stress and poor diet would be
a good choice of two things that are
causing our stress excellent sentence
three this essay will suggest two main
solutions so stress related illnesses
are becoming increasingly common what
solutions can you suggest well this
essay will also suggest solutions to
these problems including improving one's
work-life balance and diet good so it's
pretty simple
simple and pretty similar this essay
will also suggest plus your two main
solutions to your two main problems
alright let me have a look at this chat
in here good Richie
so this essay will also suggest
solutions such as a work/life balance
and physical exercise yes you've got the
problems you've got the solutions you're
right on topic well done kudos this
essay will suggest two solutions for the
problem such as eating a healthy diet
and doing physical exercise Goodger Prix
in this essay will discuss how we cope
with stress by challenging changing the
lifestyle and managing work GU Muhammad
this essay will discuss two such
solutions by keeping the needs limited
to your income and spending more time
with your family
gu excellent that's fine Smitha this
essay will also suggest that financial
planning and a work-life balance will
counter the stress-related illnesses
beautiful you can see what you've done
here your introduction has laid the
pathway for the rest of your essay
you've said to the reader a bit of a
background statement gives it alright so
stress-related problems are becoming a
real issue these days the two main
causes are you know a bad diet and a
lack of exercise the solutions to these
problems are of course eating healthier
and joining the local gym great I mean
you don't have to have profound ideas
it's not about that it's just about
being logical because what I also
examiner's love to see in an essay is a
logical structure they love to see that
you've actually answered the question
which a lot of people don't quite answer
it there might be a little bit off topic
so by following this structure you
really nail the topic which is worth by
the way 25 percent so people
increasingly suffering from sicknesses
as a result of stress causes this essay
will discuss the main causes of stress
related sicknesses including longer work
hours and increased job pressures
solutions this essay will
also suggest solutions to these problems
including improving one's work-life
balance and diet beautiful now we're on
to paragraph 1 let's do this so we want
to again go back to those causes that we
mentioned in the introduction so here we
mention the two main causes now we're
we're we're we're right we're mentioning
them again using different language then
we're going to give a reason give some
examples and then we're going to
conclude and I'll show you what this
looks like
paragraph 1 people are working longer
hours than ever before in addition they
have more job pressures people place
themselves under these favorable
conditions because the workforce is a
competitive domain for example some
people aspire to climb the corporate
ladder to gain high status and a high
paying job this often results in mental
and physical suffering because they have
to work overtime and take on additional
roles which can be stressful all related
to the topic all linked to my
introduction what do we do sentence 1
introduce both those causes again you're
not really introducing sorry let me
change this it's not really it's not
really introducing it it's it's mention
it's mention mention both causes again
my apologies I think that's a better way
to describe mention both causes again so
stress-related illnesses are becoming
increasingly common what do you think
are the causes and then my first
sentence of paragraph 1 says people are
working longer hours than ever before
there's my work-life balance thing and
the job pressures good I think I've
missed one but anyway you can probably
write a better one mention both causes
again in different words mention
all right let me have a look at these uh
chat here good do okay and here we go
Smith up people struggle to struggle
hard to earn more money and along with
this they also strive hard to maintain
good health
beautiful struggling with money
struggling with health excellent and it
looks like you've used different words
from this from the causes you put in
your introduction which is good you're
saying the same thing but in different
words
excellent so it means you're staying on
topic and you're also telling the
examiner that you've got a good range of
vocabulary and grammar
Prasanna stress caused by money problems
and bad health are prominent beautiful
short succinct simple well done
Maria being deprived of sleep as well as
being unable to take a break from work
leads to a higher chance of compromising
an individual's immune system good
that's a complex sentence that's good
well done you've got your two causes
again embedded in there
excellent so what's next now we need to
give reasons for those causes and this
is kind of hard let me explain to you
what I mean here because what the key to
this one is to ask yourself why so
here's the prompt again always look back
to the prompt stress-related illnesses
are becoming increasingly common what do
you think of the causes well I said
people are working longer hours than
ever before and I've written two
sentences I can write just one but I've
written two in addition they have more
pressures why why because the Isles asks
you to give reasons and the way that you
give a reason is to ask why okay so why
why are people working longer hours and
having greater job pressures well this
is what I wrote I said people placed
themselves under these unfavorable
conditions because the work force is a
competitive domain
that's the reason why people are working
longer hours and they have more job
pressures because the workforce this is
my reason why because the workforce is a
competitive domain cool so give reasons
and ask yourself why or reason singular
one or two that's okay
all right let me check some of these
answers here
reasons why why why dealing with
difficulties in managing finances can be
challenging especially due to the
increase in cost of living beautiful
well done now Smitha kudos people just
pick up whatever they can to eat to save
time and they don't go for physical
activities excellent well done reasons
why I knew in this competitive area
working under stressful environment has
become mandatory mandatory for survival
good Tundra people are not having people
do not have awareness of what they are
eating good that's the reason why baby
Ellie do to maintain good cultural
status people and working more hours in
order to maintain a high cultural status
people are working more hours that's the
reason why excellent cool now we need to
give some examples okay give examples
let me tell you what I am did I'm gonna
read mine from beginning to end so
people are working longer hours than
ever before in addition they have more
job pressures why people place
themselves under these unfavorable
conditions because the workforce is a
competitive domain give me an example
for example some people aspire to climb
the corporate ladder to gain high status
and a high paying job so now what we're
doing with this one is we're giving an
example or two examples if you want
let's have a look at some of these
examples what have we got people wish to
excel in their professional career and
working hard to earn more money good ok
fine it means Mike Smith that many
people go through all the stress to earn
more in order to maintain the needs of
the family good oh no for example people
work longer hours either do two jobs
demand or to gain better career in the
future excellent victor to illustrate
companies jobs are more demanding and
require more extra time to perform a
task meaning that people have to use
their free time as well good excellent
example well done
one more let's do cou DOS researchers
have found good okay fine you're
bringing in some research that's ok
researchers have found that people in
the USA and the UK have in are involved
in more in stress because eating junk
food because they lack let me just say
this research suggests that people in
the UK in the USA have more stressful
lifestyles because they eat more junk
food and do less exercise there you go
that's how to do that one cool well done
we've just got weight we've got one more
sentence because we need to wrap up this
paragraph we need to wrap up this
paragraph we want to write a concluding
sort of sentence here that pulls it all
together we want to pull this paragraph
together and in order to do that we need
a concluding sentence which links it
back so let's look at this one here I'm
going to read from the beginning people
are working longer hours than ever
before my second sentence here in
addition they have more job pressures so
they're my two causes then I'm going to
give a reason why people place
themselves under these unfavourable
conditions because the work force is a
competitive domain for example some
people aspire to climb the corporate
ladder to gain high status and a high
paying job now I want to conclude and
wrap this all up this often results in
mental and physical suffering
because they have to work overtime and
take on additional roles which can be
stressful
good so remember to always bring it back
to the question prompt bring it back to
the question prompt so this final
sentence will bring it back to the
question prompt here so I talked about
mental and physical suffering and here
it's talking about stress related
illnesses okay so pull yours back to the
question prompts conclude your causes by
bringing it back
all right let's have a look at some of
these answers here so bring it back
bring it back good kudos this often
leads some mental disorders and heart
related disease it's good i if that was
what you wrote in your introduction
about mental disorders and heart related
diseases they sound like the may be the
causes
let's see Richie's regular overtime and
corporate pressure lead to mental and
physical agony good
I think agony is probably not the right
synonym I would say distress fit mental
and physical distress because it's also
linked right back to that question
prompt about stress-related illnesses so
agony is probably not the Krait white
the right word there achieve it that's
fine so Vaibhav the outcome of the
above-mentioned
causes is emotional and physical damage
which affects health of the individual
good Prasanna this results in stress due
to bad economic planning and poor
maintenance of health good results in
stress nice concluding sentence bringing
it back to the question prompt well done
we're gonna do this one more time this
time we're going to do it with the
solutions though but before we do that
let's just recap what we did here I
mention the causes people are working
hard at longer hours than ever before
job pressures I gave the reason I gave
an example and then I did a concluding
sentence to tie the paragraph back up
make it logical and also to link it back
up to that question prompt beautiful
right now we're gonna write paragraph
two usually we don't but this time we
have two because we're gonna write about
the solutions it's almost identical to
paragraph one paragraph two but this
time instead of talking about the causes
we're going to talk about the solutions
cool let's have a look I'm gonna read
your mind and then we're gonna break it
down and do it sentence my
sentence maintaining a good work-life
balance and improving one's diet are
both critical to mitigating
stress-related illnesses reasons people
need to realize that if they live only
for work they will suffer either
mentally or physically and a poor diet
will further exacerbate these issues
examples for example many employees
burnout from working too much and
neglecting family friends exercise and
hobbies as well as the foods they eat
concluding sentence that ties it all
together therefore in order to reduce
work work-related stress sorry I missed
something here work-related stress I
think it should say in order to reduce
work-related stress one must include a
better ratio of work rest recreation and
dietary sustenance let's do this
sentence by sentence so introduce your
solutions again here are mine
maintaining a good work-life balance and
improving one's diet there my solutions
now I want you to write yours
remember your solutions must match to
your causes
all right let's have a look at these
answers here from you guys in order to
eradicate stress-related problems
physical exercise and work-life balance
is important beautiful okay so we can
see now it's funny it's like you mention
these bad things like financial stress
and health problems and dietary issues
and then you say okay here are the
solutions you're the solutions you've
nailed the two causes now you're nailing
the two solutions and we've got a
beautiful essay appearing paper Ellie
people should maintain a good lifestyle
to reduce their stress that's one
solution I hope you've got another one
coming mariya getting as much as seven
hours of sleep and unwinding from work
means that you are helping yourself cope
with the stresses in life good so sleep
and unwinding excellent fell above
maintaining an optimum work-life balance
one an appropriate dietary habits to
will result in overcoming stress-related
issues
fantastic Prasanna regular exercise and
taking help about budget receiving
advice about your finances there's your
second one Suresh in the modern
competitive world balancing between haha
okay that one's a bit off
go pre it maintaining good dismembered
offering solutions to the problem
solutions to the problems cool
let's push on sentence two like we did
in paragraph one give reasons let's look
at this again again you need to ask
yourself why when if you give a reason
ask yourself why so stress related
illnesses are becoming increasingly
common what solutions can you suggest
and I said maintaining a good work-life
balance improving one's diet are both
critical to mitigating stress-related
illnesses why well
I said people need to realize that if
they live only for work they will suffer
either mentally or physically and a poor
diet will further exacerbate these
issues so give reasons or a reason or
reasons for your first sentence
whoopsie sorry all right let's look at
these answers Rhea unbalanced work-life
might bring depression in daily life
guru good reason an unbalanced work-life
depression or yet stress-related
depression you could probably link it a
little bit more to stress-related
although depression stress definitely
very related well done Ruchi people
should focus on their this is a reason
why why Ricci people should focus on
their health along with their work
because if they are not healthy it will
impact their personal as well as
professional life good well done
Smitha having enough money and good
health a crucial for leading a happy
life good well done that's a good reason
why kudos it's obvious that good and
balanced diet will make and control
their stress hormones and physical
activities will keep them fit and give
them a chance to release their stress
good reasons are important well done
well done
oops where am i Here I am excellent give
some examples so what are my examples so
I I I mentioned my two suggestions my
solutions rather I mentioned my two
solutions of maintaining a good
work-life balance and improving one's
diet ok fine and then I say why well
people need to realize bla bla bla bla
then I give an example for example many
employees burnout
from working too much and neglecting
family friends exercise and hobbies as
well as the foods they eat cool so now
you can give some examples for your
reasons
by the way if you're on YouTube I would
appreciate it very much li if you
clicked like and feel free to leave a
comment and do subscribe so you can get
these videos when we produce them
all right let's have a look at this chat
here we're gonna get some examples
exemple Chandra Mohan the junk food
intake and not managing time to to take
rest will lead to high stress good you
could it's always good to just say for
example or for instance why because the
IELTS examiner's very quickly read your
essays and when they see these key words
at least they know that you've given
examples
it's just embedded in there as a
sentence it might get overlooked Ruchi
for example stress often leads to
frustration and people start neglecting
their families good example or don't
kudos for instance there's been found
according to a study that having eating
a balanced diet reduces your stress
hormones and physical activities such as
swimming and walking make you relaxed
excellent so you've used a fake study
but that's fine this isn't about you
know having good references or telling
the truth even it's just it's just a
writing task to test your writing so 99%
of people know that exercising and
eating leafy greens will improve your
stress related illnesses
for example cool so we've given some
examples excellent now we need to
conclude this is the final step we
conclude by writing one of these
sentences that makes the whole paragraph
logical and this links back to here
right let's have a look at my concluding
sentence I said therefore in order to
reduce work-related this is the mistake
I made before work-related stress in
order to reduce work-related stress one
must include a better ratio of work rest
recreation and dietary sustenance it's
always this is a nice little
to conclude with therefore or you can
say in summary that's also a nice way to
bring a concluding sentence in summary
or yeah those two are probably best so
see how you go
writing your concluding sentence you
conclude your solutions
all right let me have a look at this
chat so nice concluding sentence that
wraps up your paragraph here we go
therefore people should consider their
diet properly good that's just one
solution so favorite le I hope you've
mentioned more than one solution so
people should consider their diet and
their physical exercise regimes
carefully good Ruchi therefore to
maintain good a good stress-free life
one should have a healthy diet and
exercise on a regular basis beautiful
you can see how that final sentence of
the paragraph really just pulls it all
together and makes it coherent it's a
really nice thing to do that final
sentence it's important if you just
finish after your examples it's not
ideal it's not a coherent paragraph you
want to make it coherent oh no to
recapitulate it is essential to have a
balance between work and diet so as to
cope with stress beautiful persona thus
if it lasts is a good one by the way
that's fine and so is to recapitulate
thus physical fitness and well-planned
finances are key to a stress-free life
excellent that really ties back to the
question prompt about stress-related
illnesses what are the solutions good
excellent well done that's looking good
that's looking good
so this was my paragraph to wear first
of all I mentioned the two solutions
then I give a reason then I give an
example then I give a sort of concluding
sentence and I've written a very logical
s paragraph that links back to that
question prompt it's spot-on cool let's
think about how to write the conclusion
and as we saw at the beginning the
conclusion is exactly the same as the
introduction all that changes is instead
of saying we'll discuss and we'll
suggest you say this essay discussed
this essay suggested because in this
paragraph in the introduction you tell
the reader what you will tell them here
you tell them and then here you tell the
reader what you told them again that
makes that logical beautiful essay
structure here's my conclusion I'll read
it to you then we'll break it down
sentence by sentence in conclusion in
today's fast-paced world more and more
people are becoming ill as a result of
stress this essay discussed how stress
is often caused by long working hours
and intense workplace pressure this
essay also suggested that the solutions
to this problem are twofold
I've forgotten to put my diet thing in
here hmm would I get an IELTS nine
because I've forgotten to mention diet
in this conclusion it should be long
working hours and poor diet so let's see
if I can fix this now this essay also
suggested that the solutions to this
problem of stress are twofold to manage
a better work-life balance and to eat a
healthier diet so I've made a little
error here I've forgotten to mention
diet but that's probably not too bad
let's work out how to write it sentence
one rewrite the general statement in
your own words this is the general
statement from the question prompt it
says stress-related illnesses are
becoming increasingly common I rewrote
this to say in today's fast-paced world
more and more people are becoming ill as
a result of stress these to say the same
thing but in different words and this
says the same thing as my introductory
sentence the first sentence of my
introduction but just in different words
so rewrite that general statement in
different words
all right what if we go okay
Oh No
in conclusion stress-related problems
are burgeoning in this epoch yeah not in
this era would be would be more epochs a
little bit different not quite precise
in this era good that's better
Chandra in summary stress remains the
main cause for regular sickness no
that's not what the question prompt says
it says that it's increasing becoming
more yes make sure you rewrite it to
mean the same thing okay
in conclusion people are more exposed to
stress and mental disorders not yet
there kudos Faber in conclusion in
today's competitive world people are
suffering from illnesses due to stress
good well done
Ruchi to recapitulate these days
stress-related problems are quite
evident excellent Gurpreet to sum up
there is a growing number of people
suffering from stress-related problems
well done we've just rewritten that one
that's pretty straightforward
now what do we do for sentence to this
essay discussed two main causes so mine
says this essay discussed how stress is
often caused by long working hours and
now I made the mistake of forgetting
what my what my one was and I said poor
diet so these were my two because this
should reflect my conclusion should
reflect my introduction and in my
introduction I mentioned poor diet so
this essay discussed how stress is often
caused by long working hours and a poor
diet good
they're the causes they're the causes
that I mentioned my two causes go back
and start this sentence this essay
discussed mention your two causes again
good kudos this essay discussed what
causes stress which is an unhealthy diet
and a lack of physical exercise good by
the way you've chosen two simple ones
and that makes your life easier choose
whatever is simplest well done Richie
this essay discussed how stress is
caused due to poor food habits and
immense work pressure excellent - Val
barf this essay discussed the effects of
prolonged working habit and an
unbalanced diet which leads to stress
beautiful you've mentioned your two
causes again you can probably imagine
what's going to come next in the next
sentence if we mention the causes then
we're going to mention the solution so
let's work out how to do this one here
this essay suggested two main solutions
so what did I write I wrote this essay
also suggested that the solutions to
this problem are twofold to manage a bit
of work-life balance remember that this
was mentioned in paragraph two as well
and to eat a healthier diet good so
rewrite your two suggestions your two
main suggestions
all right let's look so Chandra not we
also have suggested you could say just
this essay this essay not I not where
this essay this essay has suggested that
to eliminate stress people need a
balanced diet in to manage time to have
to sleep well good go pre
to deal with stress-related problems one
should take care of oneself take care of
the working habits and their diet good
remember this is the final sentence of
the essay so it really needs to have a
bit of flair it needs to be a nice
sentence that really just brings it all
together
Prasanna this essay suggested that
financial planning and maintaining good
health counter these problems powerful
well done Richie this essay suggested
two important solutions including a
balanced diet and a good work-life
balance excellent very clear Riya this
essay suggested that the solutions to
these problems are to balance work life
and to maintain a healthy habit healthy
eating habit may be kudos also this
essay suggested two main solutions that
can be that can alleviate stress which
are healthier and balanced diet and
exercise fine Vaibhav this essay also
discussed the solutions to stress which
are to maintain an optimum work-life
balance and to inculcate healthy dietary
habits good well done we have now just
written our essay I won't go through
that now essay is complete our essay is
complete well done now that's what it's
going to look like on test day ok you
want to separate your paragraphs like
this you've distinctly got four
paragraphs haven't you you
got an introduction you've got two body
paragraphs and you've got a conclusion
down here here's your intro p1 p2 and
your conclusion fine how many words
where you should really should count
because you must write over 250 or you
will be penalized so if you noticed
carefully you'll see that well this was
three sentences this was for this was
four and this was three you can see that
the introduction is a bit skinnier than
the body paragraphs these are quite
quite quite fat and that's good because
you want to push it above 250 words
right so make sure when you're
practicing that you're writing above 250
so minus 262 why is this an IELTS 9 well
I did make a little mistake I wonder if
they would see that well importantly
what I've done is I've written on topic
ok this structure that I've just shown
you basically you cannot write off topic
if you use this structure by rewriting
the general statement by introducing the
court mentioning the causes and the
solutions the reasons the examples the
conclusion it all points directly to the
question prompt you're never deviating
and this is really important this is
worth 25% of your mark you have written
on topic every sentence has a purpose
that's really critical the other thing I
have done and this depends on your
language skills in here I've used
precise vocabulary so somebody before
use the word epoch instead of era and
that's an imprecise use of the word
epoch so when you're choosing vocabulary
choose words that you're confident you
know it's better to use a simple word
that's precise rather than a complex
word that's imprecise go for simplicity
any day of the week right
but yes the other thing that we've done
here for vocabulary is because we have
rewritten the question prompt twice and
we've mentioned our causes and solutions
in various ways it's forced us to use
different synonyms it's forced us to use
a variety of vocabulary and that's a
good thing
I don't know if you can see mine but
I've used a number of phrases in mine as
well I won't get into these maybe I'll
just have a look at a few ones like
workplace pressure work-life balance you
suffer from diseases for examples that's
a good verb to use here's a phrase
burnout employees burnout so you can see
that it's not just single words but I've
used cup word combinations accurate
grammar well if I look here somebody
mentioned something about verb tenses
before I've used a variety of verb
tenses I've said this si will discuss
future that I've said people are working
present progressive Ivy's present simple
people placed themselves I've used a
variety of different verb tenses and
then in the conclusion I said this si
discussed and suggested I've used the
past tense so in fact I've probably got
six different verbs in there I haven't
just used verbs to just show off I've
used I've specifically chosen the right
verb to do the right job that's what
it's all about
but just because this si structured so
well you end up using different verb
tenses anyway apart from that the
grammar is good the sentence structures
short some short sentences some complex
lastly I've used a logical structure so
what does that mean well all of my my
paragraphs connect to the next one like
this and I can see that my conclusion
connects back to my introduction even
with
in the paragraph itself how I go from a
sort of introductory sentence to the
reason to the example to the concluding
sentence you can see that there's an
inherent logic even in the paragraphs
themselves so we've got an overall logic
of the essay and then within the
paragraph itself there is logic this my
friends is how you get to or towards an
IELTS nine this requires practice it
requires feedback and maybe even a
tutorial what I mean by that is one of
the things we do at e to language come
by the way which you can check out is we
give you feedback on your writing so you
you learn how to write these essays you
submit them through the website our
expert teachers get your essays and give
you feedback on them
the other thing we do is we actually
offer one-on-one tutorials like this
with experts so you submit your essay
then the teacher sits down with you and
says okay let's look at your essay
sentence by sentence and gives you
verbal feedback corrective feedback in
the moment in real time on how to
improve your writing so if you need any
of that help do check out this website
here go to WWE to language and go comm
check out that website it will certainly
help you while we're at it if you're on
YouTube and you've gotten this far
please click like click subscribe and do
leave lovely comment by enjoying lovely
comments but for now I'm going to go to
the chats for the paid members by the
way Prasanna je mi to give examples of
both the causes ends in the solutions
don't worry too much about how you
connect that example to the causes and
the solutions what's more important is
that you is that you use that phrase for
example and it leads on from your
reasons basically the IELTS examiner's
are scan reading your essays and if they
see that they
you've used examples that's probably
good enough so that's fine that's fine
good question Ritchie good I'm glad that
helped oh no can we have access to the
IELTS webinars like we have for Pte yes
they should be in your platform there
should be in your platform any other
questions any other questions
cool I think that's all I'm totally
exhausted I'm going home to bed and yes
I might sleep for about three weeks
thank you very much for coming I hope it
was helpful I think it is helpful doing
it sentence by sentence is great as I
said on test a if you if you forget the
structure a little bit that's okay but
if you've done the practice you'll start
to realize that the visit there's a bit
of a formula here I know there are five
different essay types and we've looked
at five slightly different structures
but what you'll find on on test day if
you've struck if you've practiced this
you'll sit down and you'll see that
question prompt and you're going yes I
know what to do
I'm gonna rewrite that general statement
ball yes I can see side one I'm gonna
rewrite that and you might not memorize
the structure come entirely but you will
have a very good idea of how to
construct your introduction your
paragraphs and your conclusion all right
bid you farewell see you soon
you